# CS-360

# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
This app is designed to address users needs for the ability to manage and receive alerts for their inventory items. This purpose could be for small business owners, warehouse managers, factory managers, and many others that need to keep account of inventory items and be notified when the quantity of those items reach zero. To do this I addressed the requirements of creating a user login, creating a database, displaying those database items in a grid, and prompting users for SMS permission.

# What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
This application used several screens to create the functionality of the application and meet the user requirments outlined above. The main screen is a user login/registration screen where the user can either sign in or sign up to the application. The following screen is the inventory view screen where the user can see their inventory items in a grid format as well as having the abilty to edit, delete, and add items as well as grant SMS permission. The edit and add item buttons on the enventory screen also navigates to seperate screens allowing the user to either update or add the required information for an item. Lastly there is two pop up sreens, one for the SMS permission and another for when the user selects the delete-all button to confirm that decision. This app was designed with users in mind by developing the code according to the user requirements and coming back to the user for every development decision. Overall keeping the users at the forefront of the development process helped to make the application successful.

# How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
I approached the process of coding this app by starting with identifying the targeted users of the app and then extracting their wants and needs in the form of requirments. After gathering all of the user requirments I then began to create the UI for the application based on those requirments. Once I have the UI in place I began to develop the back-end code to implement the functionality of the UI. This includes seperate java files for each screens functionality and several more to create the databases, SQL handlers, and item objects.

# How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
I tested my code by checking each functionality of the application to verify the correct outcomes occured. This included normal inputs and behavior as well as fringe input and behaviors. This process is important to verify that the application works correctly and meets the user requirments.

# Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
The biggest challenge that I faced was implementing the view for the database items and getting the add item button to correctly return the added item. I ultimately used a deprecated function to implement the add button so that it returned the item in order to add it to the database. However, I plan to improve this aspect of the code in further iterations so that I can replace the deprecated function.

# In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I feel like I did well with the entire app in respect to meeting the user requirements. However, I feel the best about implementing the SQL handlers to manage my databases which I have never worked with before because I know the importance of working with data and databases in any development project.
